Sui Essentials | Sui Documentation






[Skip to main content](#__docusaurus_skipToContent_fallback)

🗳️Book Office Hours→[💬Join Discord→](https://discord.gg/sui)

On this page

# Sui Essentials

Follow these guides to learn about essential Sui concepts.

## Object Ownership

On Sui, object ownership can be represented in different ways. Weigh the benefits of each to decide the best approach for your project.

## Using Events

Use events to notify on-chain assets of activity your smart contracts initiate and query events from other packages to trigger logic based on emitted events.

## Access Sui Data

Overview of the types of data access mechanisms available in Sui.

## Access On-Chain Time

Access network-based time for your transactions. Sui provides a Clock module to capture near-real time or epoch time in your Sui packages.

## Connect to a Local Network

Connect to a Sui local network using the Sui CLI. Use local networks to test your applications and prepare for launching them on Devnet or Testnet.

## Signing & sending transactions[​](#signing--sending-transactions "Direct link to Signing & sending transactions")

Learn about signing and sending transactions.

## Sponsored Transactions

Sponsored transactions are a primitive on the Sui blockchain that enable the execution of a transaction where you pay the gas fee for your users transactions.

## Avoid Equivocation

Epochs define time periods on Sui where the validator set remains unchanged. Equivocation occurs when objects are used incorrectly across transactions. Reconfiguration adjusts network parameters at epoch boundaries.

## Building PTBs

Using the Sui TypeScript SDK, you can create programmable transaction blocks to perform multiple commands in a single transaction.

## Coin Management

Because Sui uses coins as owned objects for transactions, you need to explicitly manage them in your programmable transaction block development.

## Simulating References

Use the borrow module in the Sui framework to include objects by reference in your programmable transaction blocks.

* [Signing & sending transactions](#signing--sending-transactions)