GraphQL for Sui RPC (Beta) | Sui Documentation






[Skip to main content](#__docusaurus_skipToContent_fallback)

🗳️Book Office Hours→[💬Join Discord→](https://discord.gg/sui)

On this page

# GraphQL for Sui RPC (Beta)

⚙️Early-Stage Feature

This content describes an alpha/beta feature or service. These early stage features and services are in active development, so details are likely to change.

This feature or service is currently available in

* Devnet
* Testnet
* Mainnet

GraphQL for the Sui RPC is a public service that enables interacting with the Sui [network](https://sui.io/networkinfo).

To get started with GraphQL for the Sui RPC, check out the [Getting Started](/guides/developer/advanced/graphql-rpc) guide. If you'd like to learn more about the concepts used in the GraphQL service, check out the [GraphQL](/concepts/data-access/graphql-rpc) for Sui RPC concepts page.

info

Refer to [Access Sui Data](/concepts/data-access/data-serving) for an overview of options to access Sui network data.

## GraphQL schemas[​](#graphql-schemas "Direct link to GraphQL schemas")

info

The GraphQL RPC release stage is currently in beta. Refer to the high-level timeline for releases in [Access Sui Data](/concepts/data-access/data-serving).

* [Beta](/references/sui-api/sui-graphql/beta/reference)
* [Alpha](/references/sui-api/sui-graphql/alpha/reference)

## Key types[​](#key-types "Direct link to Key types")

All GraphQL API elements are accessible via the left sidebar, the following are good starting points to explore from.

* "Queries" lists all top-level queries for reading the chain state, from reading details about addresses and objects to [dryRunTransactionBlock](/references/sui-api/sui-graphql/beta/reference/operations/queries/simulate-transaction.mdx), which has an execution-like interface but does not modify the chain.
* "Mutations" lists operations that can modify chain state, like [executeTransactionBlock](/references/sui-api/sui-graphql/beta/reference/operations/mutations/execute-transaction.mdx).
* [Object](/references/sui-api/sui-graphql/alpha/reference/types/objects/object) is the type representing all on-chain objects (Move values and packages).
* [Address](/references/sui-api/sui-graphql/alpha/reference/types/objects/address) corresponds to account addresses (derived from the public keys of signatures that sign transactions) and can be used to query the objects owned by these accounts and the transactions they have signed or been affected by.
  [Owner](/references/sui-api/sui-graphql/beta/reference/types/objects/owned-or-immutable) represents any entity that can own a [MoveObject](/references/sui-api/sui-graphql/beta/reference/types/objects/move-object) to handle cases where it is not known whether the owner is an [Object](/references/sui-api/sui-graphql/beta/reference/types/objects/object) or an [Address](/references/sui-api/sui-graphql/beta/reference/types/objects/address) (for example, from the perspective of a Move object looking at its owner).

## Related links[​](#related-links "Direct link to Related links")

•

[Querying Sui RPC with GraphQL](/guides/developer/advanced/graphql-rpc)

Introductory guide to making queries of the Sui RPC using the GraphQL service.

•

[GraphQL for Sui RPC (Beta)](/concepts/data-access/graphql-rpc)

Use GraphQL to make Sui RPC calls. This feature is currently in Beta.

•

[GraphQL and General-Purpose Indexer (Beta)](/concepts/data-access/graphql-indexer)

The GraphQL RPC Beta service offers a structured way for your clients to interact with data on the Sui blockchain. It accesses data processed by a general-purpose indexer and can connect to an archival store for historical network state.

* [GraphQL schemas](#graphql-schemas)
* [Key types](#key-types)
* [Related links](#related-links)