Sui Standards Overview | Sui Documentation






[Skip to main content](#__docusaurus_skipToContent_fallback)

🗳️Book Office Hours→[💬Join Discord→](https://discord.gg/sui)

# Sui Standards Overview

Standards on Sui are features, frameworks, or apps that you can extend or customize.

## Closed-Loop Token

Closed-Loop tokens can only be used for a specific service or by authorized users.

## Coin

The Coin standard enables you to create a broad range of fungible tokens on the Sui network to satisfy a number of use cases.

## Currency

The Sui Currency Standard enables you to create a broad range of fungible tokens on the Sui network using either the legacy coin creation or the centralized coin registry system.

## DeepBook

A central limit order book that offers features and functionality for marketplaces on Sui. Token exchanges leveraging the layer can feature transparency, a full range of trading options, and customer privacy.

## Kiosk

Kiosk is a decentralized system for commerce applications on Sui. Kiosk is a part of the Sui framework, native to the system, and available to everyone.

## Kiosk Apps

Kiosk apps are a way to extend the functionality of Sui Kiosk while keeping the core functionality intact. You can develop apps to add new features to a kiosk without having to modify the core code or move the assets elsewhere.

## Sui Object Display

The Sui Object Display standard is a template engine that enables on-chain management of off-chain representation (display) for a type.

## Wallet Standard

The Wallet Standard defines how dApps can automatically discover and interact with wallets.

## Payment Kit

The Sui Payment Kit is a robust, open-source payment processing toolkit that provides secure payment verification, receipt management, and duplicate prevention for applications built on the Sui blockchain.