Sui and Community SDKs | Sui Documentation






[Skip to main content](#__docusaurus_skipToContent_fallback)

🗳️Book Office Hours→[💬Join Discord→](https://discord.gg/sui)

On this page

# Sui and Community SDKs

Sui provides developer kits that act as wrappers for the Sui API. The Sui community broadens the code coverage with its own set of developer kits targeting the Sui blockchain.

## Sui SDKs[​](#sui-sdks "Direct link to Sui SDKs")

## dApp Kit

A web frontend SDK that interacts with the Sui API. It is available as an NPM package.

## Rust SDK

SDK configuration and examples of using the Sui API with Rust, using the `sui-sdk` crate.

## Rust SDK Auto-generated Docs

Auto-generated documentation for the `sui-sdk` crate in the Sui repository.

## TypeScript SDK

TypeScript SDK for integrating Sui in your TS dApps.

## zkSend SDK

zkSend SDK to enable you to incorporate Stashed functionality.

## Community SDKs[​](#community-sdks "Direct link to Community SDKs")

info

While the community projects are expertly developed, their maintenance and community support vary. You might want to research a project's history and support level before committing to using its utilities.

## dApp Kit (Vue)

Sui dApp Kit for the Vue framework.

## Dart SDK

A cross-platform Sui SDK for mobile, web, and desktop.

## Go SDK

SDK for developing for Sui using Golang.

## Kotlin SDK

Ksui is a collection of Kotlin Multiplatform JSON-RPC wrapper and crypto utilities for interacting with a Sui full node.

## Python SDK

pysui is a Python client for developing on the Sui blockchain.

## Swift SDK

SuiKit is a Swift SDK natively designed for developing on the Sui blockchain.

* [Sui SDKs](#sui-sdks)
* [Community SDKs](#community-sdks)